docs: update VPA docs (#3443)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/troubleshooting.md

Reviewer: trailing whitespace

```suggestion
### Cause
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no data arrives at your backend, first check for backend-side issues (see [Not All Data Arrive at the Backend](#not-all-data-arrive-at-the-backend)).
```

Reviewer: The solution list mixes workarounds (disable VPA, use static limits) with fixes (add bigger nodes, reduce volume). Consider restructuring the list to separate them clearly:

```suggestion
If data arrives but components run out of memory, consider one of the following options:

To resolve the issue, reduce memory pressure:

- Add nodes with more memory to increase the calculated `maxAllowed` value.
- Reduce telemetry volume by applying filters in your pipelines (see [Filter Logs](./filter-and-process/filter-logs.md), [Filter Traces](./filter-and-process/filter-traces.md), [Filter Metrics](./filter-and-process/filter-metrics.md)).

As a workaround, you can disable VPA so that the system uses static resource limits:
```

Reviewer: shorter:

```suggestion
Install the VPA CRD in your cluster (see [Vertical Pod Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/vertical-pod-autoscaler)).
```

Reviewer: This must be h2, not h3.

```suggestion
## Observability Backend Shows Fewer Traces than Expected
```

Reviewer: Same here, this must be h2

```suggestion
## MetricPipeline: Failed to Scrape Prometheus Endpoint
```

Reviewer: Let's explain the abbreviation at its first occurrence.

```suggestion
The Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) CRD is not installed in your cluster.
 ```

VPA resources are not created even though VPA is enabled.

### Cause

The Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) CRD is not installed in your cluster.

### Solution

Install the VPA CRD in your cluster (see [Vertical Pod Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/vertical-pod-autoscaler)).

> ## Memory Limits Too Restrictive

Reviewer: The title of troubleshooting instructions [always must be a symptom, not a cause](https://github.com/kyma-project/template-repository/blob/main/docs/user/assets/templates/troubleshooting.md?plain=1). 

```suggestion
## Telemetry Components Run Out of Memory
```

If you want to mention memory limits being too restrictive, put it under "Cause".

### Cause

> The calculated `maxAllowed` memory (15% of smallest Node) might be insufficient for your telemetry volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory limits are too restrictive for your telemetry volume. VPA calculates limits based on the smallest node in your cluster, which might not provide enough memory for high-volume telemetry workloads.
```

### Solution

> If no data arrives at your backend, first check for backend-side issues (see [Not All Data Arrive at the Backend](#not-all-data-arrive-at-the-backend)).

Reviewer: How is this related to the symptom "Telemetry components are running out of memory despite VPA being enabled."? 

Is "no data arriving at all" a result of running out of memory?

Author: When no data arrives at the backend,  the agents or gateways will start queue data in memory, this can in some cases cause OOM

> If data arrives but components run out of memory, consider one of the following options:

Reviewer: Let's combine these sentences.

```suggestion
If data arrives but components run out of memory, reduce memory pressure:
```

> To resolve the issue, reduce memory pressure:

Reviewer: Integrated in sentence above

```suggestion
```

### Cause

The calculated `maxAllowed` memory (15% of smallest Node) might be insufficient for your telemetry volume.

### Solution

If no data arrives at your backend, first check for backend-side issues (see [Not All Data Arrive at the Backend](#not-all-data-arrive-at-the-backend)).

If data arrives but components run out of memory, consider one of the following options:

To resolve the issue, reduce memory pressure:

- Add nodes with more memory to increase the calculated `maxAllowed` value.
- Reduce telemetry volume by applying filters in your pipelines (see [Filter Logs](./filter-and-process/filter-logs.md), [Filter Traces](./filter-and-process/filter-traces.md), [Filter Metrics](./filter-and-process/filter-metrics.md)).

As a workaround, you can disable VPA so that the system uses static resource limits:

> - Disable VPA so that the system uses static resource limits:

Reviewer: The line above says exactly the same.

```suggestion
```

- Add nodes with more memory to increase the maxAllowed calculation.
- Reduce telemetry volume by applying filters in your pipelines (see [Filter Logs](./filter-and-process/filter-logs.md), [Filter Traces](./filter-and-process/filter-traces.md), [Filter Metrics](./filter-and-process/filter-metrics.md)).

> - Disable VPA, which causes the system to use static resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disable VPA so that the system uses static resource limits:
```

  1. Edit the Telemetry resource:
  
     ```bash
     kubectl edit telemetry default -n kyma-system
     ```
  
  2. Add or change the `telemetry.kyma-project.io/enable-vpa` annotation under `metadata.annotations` to `"false"`:
  
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
     kind: Telemetry
     metadata:
       name: default
       namespace: kyma-system
       annotations:
         telemetry.kyma-project.io/enable-vpa: "false"
     spec:
       # your telemetry configuration
     ```
  
  3. Save your changes.
  
  4. Verify the configuration by listing VPA resources in the `kyma-system` namespace:
  
     ```bash
     kubectl get vpa -n kyma-system
     ```
  

>      If automatic scaling is disabled, no VPA resources appear in the namespace.

Reviewer: Nowhere in this document do we explain that VPA = automatic scaling. If we suddenly use this term here, the reader might be confused.

```suggestion
     If VPA is disabled, no VPA resources appear in the namespace.
```

>   5. To re-enable automatic scaling, remove the annotation or change its value to `"true"`.

Reviewer: How does re-enabling VPA fix the trouble that memory limits are too restrictive?? Is this a clean-up step?

```suggestion
5. If you disabled VPA temporarily for debugging, you can re-enable it later by removing the annotation or setting its value to `"true"`.
```

- Add nodes with more memory to increase the maxAllowed calculation.
- Reduce telemetry volume by applying filters in your pipelines (see [Filter Logs](./filter-and-process/filter-logs.md), [Filter Traces](./filter-and-process/filter-traces.md), [Filter Metrics](./filter-and-process/filter-metrics.md)).
- Disable VPA, which causes the system to use static resources (see [Disable Automatic Resource Scaling](#disable-automatic-resource-scaling)).

> ## Disable Automatic Resource Scaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Agent or Gateway Unhealthy
```

### Symptom

> You need predictable resource allocation for telemetry components, or VPA is causing unwanted Pod restarts.

Reviewer: Needing predictable resource allocation is a user requirement, that's not "trouble" you can shoot. 
 
I assume the symptom here would be something along these lines:

- Pipeline status: Agent or gateway unhealthy (is there a detailed message?)
- You see that one or more of the Telemetry components is in a crash loop because of OOM.

### Cause

By default, the Telemetry module uses Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) to adjust memory resources for the OTLP Gateway and agents. VPA dynamically changes resource requests and limits, which can cause Pod restarts during the adjustment period.

### Solution

> To disable automatic resource scaling:

Reviewer: This is about troubleshooting; we can't just reuse the other instructions.

```suggestion
1. To verify if the component is unhealthy because of OOM, [do this].
```
